README.md, before:

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv?ref=badge_shield)

RawFilePV
===

Kubernetes LocalPVs on Steroids

Prerequisite
---
- Kubernetes: 1.21+

Install
---
`helm install -n kube-system rawfile-csi ./deploy/charts/rawfile-csi/`

Usage
---

Create a `StorageClass` with your desired options:

```
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: my-sc
provisioner: rawfile.csi.openebs.io
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
allowVolumeExpansion: true
```

Features
---

- [x] Direct I/O: Near-zero disk performance overhead
- [x] Dynamic provisioning
- [x] Enforced volume size limit
- [x] Access Modes
    - [x] ReadWriteOnce
    - ~~ReadOnlyMany~~
    - ~~ReadWriteMany~~
- [ ] Volume modes
    - [x] `Filesystem` mode
    - [ ] `Block` mode
- [x] Volume metrics
- [x] Supports fsTypes: `ext4`, `btrfs`, `xfs`
- [x] Online expansion: If fs supports it (e.g. ext4, btrfs, xfs)
- [ ] Online shrinking: If fs supports it (e.g. btrfs)
- [ ] Offline expansion/shrinking
- [ ] Ephemeral inline volume
- [x] Filesystem-level snapshots: `btrfs` supported

Motivation
---
One might have a couple of reasons to consider using node-based (rather than network-based) storage solutions:
- Performance: Almost no network-based storage solution can keep up with baremetal disk performance in terms of IOPS/latency/throughput combined. And you’d like to get the best out of the SSD you’ve got!
- On-premise Environment: You might not be able to afford the cost of upgrading all your networking infrastructure, to get the best out of your network-based storage solution.
- Complexity: Network-based solutions are distributed systems. And distributed systems are not easy! You might want to have a system that is easier to understand and to reason about. Also, with less complexity, you can fix unpredicted issues more easily.

Using node-based storage has come a long way since k8s was born. Right now, OpenEBS’s hostPath makes it pretty easy to automatically provision hostPath PVs and use them in your workloads. There are known limitations though:
- You can’t monitor volume usage: There are hacky workarounds to run “du” regularly, but that could prove to be a performance killer, since it could put a lot of burden on your CPU and cause your filesystem cache to fill up. Not really good for a production workload.
-  You can’t enforce hard limits on your volume’s size: Again, you can hack your way around it, with the same caveats.
- You are stuck with whatever filesystem your kubelet node is offering
- You can’t customize your filesystem:

All these issues stem from the same root cause: hostPath/LocalPVs are simple bind-mounts from the host filesystem into the pod.

The idea here is to use a single file as the block device, using Linux’s loop, and create a volume based on it. That way:
- You can monitor volume usage by running df in `O(1)` since devices are mounted separately.
- The size limit is enforced by the operating system, based on the backing file size.
- Since volumes are backed by different files, each file could be formatted using different filesystems, and/or customized with different filesystem options.


## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv?ref=badge_large)

Commit message:

📝 docs: refer to chart docs in main readme and update usage based on new changes
Signed-off-by: Muhammed Hussein Karimi <info@karimi.dev>

README.md, after:

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv?ref=badge_shield)

RawFilePV
===

Kubernetes LocalPVs on Steroids

Prerequisite
---

- Kubernetes: 1.21+

Install
---

`helm install -n kube-system rawfile-csi ./deploy/charts/rawfile-csi/`

> Refer to chart's [README](./deploy/charts/rawfile-csi/README.md) to see the [values](./deploy/charts/rawfile-csi/values.yaml) documentation if you need to customize it

Usage
---

You can create one or more storage classes using chart, by default we have a storage class named `rawfile-localpv`, but you can change the name or other options by changing chart values

Features
---

- [x] Direct I/O: Near-zero disk performance overhead
- [x] Dynamic provisioning
- [x] Enforced volume size limit
- [x] Access Modes
  - [x] ReadWriteOnce
  - ~~ReadOnlyMany~~
  - ~~ReadWriteMany~~
- [ ] Volume modes
  - [x] `Filesystem` mode
  - [ ] `Block` mode
- [x] Volume metrics
- [x] Supports fsTypes: `ext4`, `btrfs`, `xfs`
- [x] Online expansion: If fs supports it (e.g. ext4, btrfs, xfs)
- [ ] Online shrinking: If fs supports it (e.g. btrfs)
- [ ] Offline expansion/shrinking
- [ ] Ephemeral inline volume
- [x] Filesystem-level snapshots: `btrfs` supported

Motivation
---

One might have a couple of reasons to consider using node-based (rather than network-based) storage solutions:

- Performance: Almost no network-based storage solution can keep up with baremetal disk performance in terms of IOPS/latency/throughput combined. And you’d like to get the best out of the SSD you’ve got!
- On-premise Environment: You might not be able to afford the cost of upgrading all your networking infrastructure, to get the best out of your network-based storage solution.
- Complexity: Network-based solutions are distributed systems. And distributed systems are not easy! You might want to have a system that is easier to understand and to reason about. Also, with less complexity, you can fix unpredicted issues more easily.

Using node-based storage has come a long way since k8s was born. Right now, OpenEBS’s hostPath makes it pretty easy to automatically provision hostPath PVs and use them in your workloads. There are known limitations though:

- You can’t monitor volume usage: There are hacky workarounds to run “du” regularly, but that could prove to be a performance killer, since it could put a lot of burden on your CPU and cause your filesystem cache to fill up. Not really good for a production workload.
- You can’t enforce hard limits on your volume’s size: Again, you can hack your way around it, with the same caveats.
- You are stuck with whatever filesystem your kubelet node is offering
- You can’t customize your filesystem:

All these issues stem from the same root cause: hostPath/LocalPVs are simple bind-mounts from the host filesystem into the pod.

The idea here is to use a single file as the block device, using Linux’s loop, and create a volume based on it. That way:

- You can monitor volume usage by running df in `O(1)` since devices are mounted separately.
- The size limit is enforced by the operating system, based on the backing file size.
- Since volumes are backed by different files, each file could be formatted using different filesystems, and/or customized with different filesystem options.

## License

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fopenebs%2Frawfile-localpv?ref=badge_large)
